- Are you using SEQUEST?

  o I use it regularly

  o I use it occasionally

  o I used to use it but no longer do

  o I tried it but didn't like it

  o I have never used it

- Please assign an importance ranking to each of the following
  considerations for choosing an MS/MS database search program:

  o My own familiarity with the program

  o Ease of use

  o Speed

  o Quality of search results

  o Availability in my lab

  o Cost

- If you use SEQUEST, what version are you using?

- Do you typically run your searches on a desktop computer or on a
  cluster?

- If you use a cluster, how many machines does it consist of?

- Have you tried Crux?

  o I use it regularly

  o I have used it at least once

  o I tried to use it but could not get it to work on my system

  o I have never used it

- What operating system to you prefer?

  o Linux

  o MacOS

  o Windows

  o other (specify)

- Are you comfortable with using a command-line interface?

  o I prefer a command-line interface over a GUI

  o I prefer a GUI but can use a command-line interface

  o I am unlikely to use a program without a GUI

- What spectrometer(s) do you typically use?

- What organism do you typically work with?

- What type of post-translational modifications do you use regularly?

- Are there additional types of PTMs that you use less frequently but
  would like to see supported?

- Which of the following features would you like to see implemented in
  Tide? (For each one, options are "very important", "somewhat
  important", "not important")

  o Specifying the maximum number of allowed missed cleavages per
    peptide.

  o Allowing the use of average mass rather than monoisotopic mass.

  o Allowing static post-translational modifications.

  o Automatically providing decoy scores.

  o Allowing different types of precursor windows (by mass, m/z or
    parts per million).

  o Allowing the user to specify custom digestion enzymes.

  o Allowing the user to control the granularity of binning on the m/z
    axis.

  o Reading .dat files.

  o Reading .out files.

  o Reading .raw files.

  o Reading/writing mzML files.

  o Reading/writing mzXML files.

  o Writing mzIdentML files.

  o Writing .sqt files.

  o Writing MGF files.

  o Writing pepXML files.

- What other features, not listed above, are very important to you?

- Are you willing to be contacted by the Tide developers, if we have
  questions about any of the answers given above?  If so, please enter
  your email address here:
